good morning this is will favor from
mark to ride and I'm here in Orange
County with Tonya today and her horse
what's your horse's name Tonya
so Lance Soleil has been working with me
for about six months or so something
like that I would say and she started as
kind of a an upside down I think did you
rescue this horse or not I can't believe
it or not not not a rescue but one that
sort of started is not so good and a
little bit some unsoundness problems and
things like that or due to bad feet and
bad back in this sort of thing but I
wanted her to help you today to see a
little bit we're talking about we got
the question I feel my horse stretches
down but it feels like it's on the floor
hand well of course it's going to feel a
little bit on the floor here in the
beginning but the main thing the thing
is whether the horse is swinging through
behind or not that's what will tell you
whether or not the horse is going to
develop correctly or not
so Tonya has just begun to be able to do
this and today actually today is the
first day that she's ever had her horse
completely over the top line all on her
own and doing it so I thought it'd be a
good opportunity for you to see her now
let her stretch all the way down so
we're gonna stretch her all the way down
now if you notice how the diagonal pairs
that is the inside a four leg in the
outside hind leg or vice versa
are swinging nicely together and she's
got a nice active swinging trot so that
being that diagonal pair thing there is
the biggest thing you need to tell
whether or not the horse is just loping
along on its front end or whether it's
coming through enough to begin to
develop so Tonya I want you to slow the
horse down to where you lose the rhythm
a little bit I have to ask you to ride
badly for a moment there from it like
that now can you all see how the truck
kind of fell apart there a little bit
the back end stopped coming through and
she is just kind of on the floor hand so
she's still moving pretty good behind
but she's been doing the schoolhouses
getting out of that slower down just a
little bit more - you lose that rhythm I
want you to kind of there you go like
that you kind of start to lose the
rhythm look how the back comes Apollo
there you go like that keep going now
you see how the trot back end isn't
moving any longer now put her back into
a working trot again get her swinging
forward and active like that and find
your working trot there and now ask for
a little bit more so it comes through so
very often we find that people are
simply just not moving the horses
actively enough forward and that's what
we need to do in the very beginning so
there once again now she's gotten her to
stretch and this is a horse that had
also been broken at the third vertebrae
and actually
today's the first day that I see the
source that she's flexing at the pole
and not flexing in her neck at all which
tells me that her back is developing
beautifully and all the right sort of
things are happening so once again just
a little more swing in the trot now I
want you to bring her up as high as you
can and maintain the same trot so she
has to add a little bit of leg and that
she brings her up she tests the water
how high can I bring the pole without
losing the back that's pretty good for
her is about right there that's very
nice now just to help out our online
viewers I'd like you to bring the
horse's head a little higher and let's
see what happens I have four stood up
and not four stood up but just bring her
head up a little bit there like that and
see how the back end we begin to lose as
she brings the head see how the rhythm
is lost like that and now the horse is
sort of arching now lower the head and
neck let it go back to where it needs to
be and reestablished the swinging trot
like that absolutely beautiful now let
her stretch all the way down and once
again this is a horse that's just
developing no matter how old they are it
takes two to three years to fully
develop a top-line to the point that you
can begin to develop collection keep
that big swing going absolutely
beautiful once again this is Tonya and
so lay here with this in Orange County
this morning helping us out thank you
very much this will favour from art to
ride hope that helps so once again keep
the horses swinging actively and look
for the diagonal pears moving absolutely
together and that is the cardinal rule
of all great dressage is when they
become in the collection that those
diagonal pairs remain United if they
separate that tells you the horses
hollowing in the movement once again
thank you very much and we'll see you
next time at our to ride